---
layout: post
title: Lessons Learned from MTG
---

## Intro
I love games. I love competition. The heat of battle, the agony of defeat, the thrill of victory; rarely do I feel more alive than when I am engaged in an intense game. It’s probably because board games were the main source of family fun when I was growing up, but games will always hold a special place in my heart. Games are cool because they strip away many of the complications of life and allow a player to narrowly focus on one thing: choices. In games, unlike in life, there are clearly defined and unbreakable rules, a set number of players, a clear objective, a definition of winning and losing, and many other logical niceties. Because of this well constructed environment, I think that its valuable to reflect on decision making in games and try to learn from them.

In this post, I reflect on my experience playing Magic The Gathering(hyperlink). For those who don’t know Magic The Gathering is a table top trading card game in which two players usually play against with 60 card decks. Each players deck contains their own cards, and can only contain up to 4 of a specific card. It’s a game that centers around reacting to what your opponent does properly, predicting what they might do, and doing things that they cannot react well to by using the cards at your disposal. In a typical game, both players see around 30 cards from their respective decks, and each of these cards are a valuable resource that must be used to its full potential. Because of the probabilistic nature of the game and because I spent much of my young life playing it, I have internalized a few principles that guide my day to day life from Magic the Gathering.

## Lesson One: What does it mean to win?
When I play games, I play to win. To some that may seem obvious, but there are many valid wats to play a game or sport, and only one of them is playing to win. People play games to have fun, to build a community, to make friends, to express themselves, and a whole other host of reasons. For me personally, playing to win brings me the most joy.
	In life, unlike in games, everyone plays to “win”. Furthermore, in life there is no set definition of what it means to win. Instead, people create their own definitions, and optimize their decisions to that end. In the same way that it makes no sense to measure my performance in a game against someone else playing an entirely different game, it makes no sense to compare myself to others in life. Instead, it makes sense to nurture a mindset which draws inspiration from others, encourages others to be their best, and pushes others and myself to outdo themselves. In life there is no cap on the amount of winners, and no floor on the amount of losers. The better we are individually and together, the better the world will be.

## Lesson Two: Feeling probability
It is well known that humans have a terrible intuition for probabilities [citation]. We are hardwired to detect patterns in the world around us and to make uncompromising predictions based on those patters, with the hope that it might benefit us to do so. It is easy to conceptually understand what a 1/10 chance is, but its much harder to really internalize what something happening one out of every ten times feels like. Magic, much like poker[nate silver citation?] and other games, gave me a good sense of what probabilities feel like. Furthermore, Magic forced me to constantly make predictions based on these probabilities, and gave me immediate feedback on how good my predictions were.

## Lesson Three: Play to your outs
In the same vein, magic gave me the sense that even something that has a one in ten chance of happening, happens once every ten times. In Magic there is this notion of playing to your outs. What that means is that even if you are at a complete and total disadvantage, and you are almost certain you will lose, but have even a 4% chance of winning, play in the way that preserves this chance. Often what this means is making decisions assuming you will draw a particular card, even if it is unlikely. In life, I found this means that not losing hope till all hope is actually lost, and it helps me stay calm and guide my decisions in seemingly lost situations.
Lesson Four: Optimize the small decisions
Games are won in 20 turns, not one. In Magic, the path to victory is to make the better decision than your opponent on every turn. That is the only way to fall victim to variance less. Optimizing small decisions goes a long way to maximizing your win percentage. In life it is that same way. Rome wasn’t built in a day, nor was it built by one person, or the result of one idea.

## Conclusion
Much to my mothers chagrin, the MTG community was the first I really sought out on my own. Where she thought I would find a bunch of losers, I really found a bunch of human beings, with their own lives and passions and interests. The biggest thing I learned was that shared passions can yield great experiences.

